.. _ucc_install:

Installation and configuration
------------------------------

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~  

To run UCC, you need a Java runtime version 11 or later (`OpenJDK <https://openjdk.org/install/>`_ preferred).

Download
~~~~~~~~

You can get the UCC latest version from SourceForge 
`UNICORE download page <https://sourceforge.net/projects/unicore/files/Clients/Commandline%20Client>`_.

Installation and configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To install, unpack the distribution in a directory of your choice. It's a good idea
to add the ``bin/`` directory to your ``PATH`` variable,

.. code:: console

  $ export PATH=$PATH:<UCC_HOME>/bin


where *UCC_HOME* is the directory you installed UCC in.

.. note:: *Windows only* 

  Please do not install UCC into a directory containing spaces such 
  as *Program files*.
  
  Also avoid long path names, this can lead to errors due to the Windows
  limit on command line length.
  
  Setting environment variables can be done (as *administrator*) 
  using the :menuselection:`Control panel --> System --> Extras panel`.


Though you can specify many parameters on the commandline, it is
easiest to use a config file, so that you do not have to key in this
information repeatedly.

Preferences file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

UCC checks by default whether the file :file:`{<userhome>}/.ucc/preferences` exists, and reads it.

A minimal example that specifies username, password and your preferred UNICORE registry URL
would look as follows::

  registry=<your registry>
  
  authentication-method=username
  username=demouser
  password=test123
  
  truststore.type=directory
  truststore.directoryLocations.1=<path to CA file(s)>
  
  client.serverHostnameChecking=NONE

Please refer to :ref:`ucc_options` for a full description of available options.


.. note::
  If you are worried about security, and do not want specify the password: UCC will ask for it 
  if it is not given in the preferences or on the commandline.


.. note:: *Windows only* 

  The preferences are usually searched in the :file:`c:\\Users\\\\{<user_name>}\\.ucc` 
  folder.
  
  To create the ``.ucc`` folder, you might have to use the 
  command prompt ``mkdir`` command. 
  
  When specifying paths in the preferences file, the backslash ``\`` 
  character needs to be written using an extra backslash ``\\``.


For example, if you are using a local UNICORE installation for 
testing, you could use
::

  registry=https://localhost:8080/DEMO-SITE/rest/core/registries/default_registry


.. tip::
  If you wish to change the default property file location, you can
  set a Java VM property in the UCC start script, for example by editing the command
  that starts UCC

  .. code:: console

    $ java .... -Ducc.preferences=<preferences location> ....


Logging
~~~~~~~

UCC writes some messages to the console, more if you choose the
verbose mode (``-v`` option). If you need real logging (e.g. when using
the batch mode), you can edit the :file:`{<UCC_HOME>}/conf/logging.properties`
file, which configures the `Log4J 
<https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/configuration.html>`_ logging 
infrastructure used in UNICORE.
  
Installing UCC extensions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

UCC can be extended with additional commands. It is enough
to copy the libraries (``.jar`` files) of the extension into a directory
that is scanned by UCC: in general these are the UCC ``lib``
and the ``${HOME}/.ucc/lib`` directory. 


.. _system-info:

Testing the installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

To test your UCC installation and to get information about the
services available in the UNICORE system you're connecting to, do

.. code:: console

  $ ucc system-info -l -v
