.. table:: 
 :width: 100 
 :widths: 20 15 15 50 
 :class: tight-table

 +-----------------+-------------+-------------+------------------------------------------------+
 |Property name    |Type         |Default value|Description                                     |
 |                 |             |\/ mandatory |                                                |
 +=================+=============+=============+================================================+
 |xuudb.credential.|filesystem   |mandatory to |Credential location. In case of jks, pkcs12 and |
 |path             |path         |be set       |pem store it is the only location required. In  |
 |                 |             |             |case when credential is provided in two files,  |
 |                 |             |             |it is the certificate file path.                |
 +-----------------+-------------+-------------+------------------------------------------------+
 |xuudb.credential.|[jks, pkcs12,|\-           |Format of the credential. It is guessed when not|
 |format           |der, pem]    |             |given. Note that pem might be either a PEM      |
 |                 |             |             |keystore with certificates and keys (in PEM     |
 |                 |             |             |format) or a pair of PEM files (one with        |
 |                 |             |             |certificate and second with private key).       |
 +-----------------+-------------+-------------+------------------------------------------------+
 |xuudb.credential.|string       |\-           |Password required to load the credential.       |
 |password         |             |             |                                                |
 +-----------------+-------------+-------------+------------------------------------------------+
 |xuudb.credential.|string       |\-           |Location of the private key if stored separately|
 |keyPath          |             |             |from the main credential (applicable for pem and|
 |                 |             |             |der types only),                                |
 +-----------------+-------------+-------------+------------------------------------------------+
 |xuudb.credential.|string       |\-           |Private key password, which might be needed only|
 |keyPassword      |             |             |for jks or pkcs12, if key is encrypted with     |
 |                 |             |             |different password then the main credential     |
 |                 |             |             |password.                                       |
 +-----------------+-------------+-------------+------------------------------------------------+
 |xuudb.credential.|string       |\-           |Keystore alias of the key entry to be used. Can |
 |keyAlias         |             |             |be ignored if the keystore contains only one key|
 |                 |             |             |entry. Only applicable for jks and pkcs12.      |
 +-----------------+-------------+-------------+------------------------------------------------+
