.. _ux_install:

Getting started
---------------

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
 
To run UNICORE/X, you need Java (OpenJDK, Oracle or IBM).
We recommend using the latest version of the OpenJDK.
If not installed on your system, you can download it from
https://openjdk.java.net/install/.

UNICORE/X has been developed and most extensively tested on Linux-like
systems, but runs on MacOS/X as well.

Please note that

 - to integrate into secure production environments, you will need 
   access to a certificate authority and generate certificates for
   all your UNICORE servers.

 - to interface with a resource management system like Slurm or SGE,
   you need to install and configure the :ref:`UNICORE TSI server <tsi>`.

 - to make your resources easily accessible outside of your firewalls,
   you should setup and configure a :ref:`UNICORE Gateway <gateway>`.

All these configuration options will be explained in the manual below.

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

UNICORE/X can be installed either as a part of the `UNICORE Server bundle
<https://sourceforge.net/projects/unicore/files/Servers/Core/>`_ (*tar.gz* or *zip* archive) 
or from a Linux package (i.e. RPM or deb) on the `UNICORE project website  
<https://sourceforge.net/p/unicore/wiki/Linux_Repositories/>`_ at sourceforge. 

To install from the *tar.gz* or *zip* archive, unpack the archive in a 
directory of your choice. You should then review the config files
in the ``conf/`` directory, and adapt paths, hostname and ports. 
The config files are commented, and you can also
check :ref:`ux_configuration`.

To install from a Linux package, please use the package manager of your
system to install the archive.

.. note::
  Using the Linux packages, you can install only a single UNICORE/X instance per machine (without
  manual changes). The *tar.gz* / *zip* archives are self contained, and you can easily install
  multiple servers per machine.

The following table gives an overview of the file locations for both tar.gz and Linux bundles:

+--------+------------------+--------------------+-------------+
| Name   | tar.gz,  zip     | rpm                | Description |
| in     |                  |                    |             |
| this   |                  |                    |             |
| manual |                  |                    |             |
+========+==================+====================+=============+
| CONF   | <basedir>/conf/  | /etc/unicore/      | Config      |
|        |                  | unicorex           | files       |
+--------+------------------+--------------------+-------------+
| LIB    | <basedir>/lib/   | /usr/share/unicore | Java        |
|        |                  | /unicorex/lib      | libraries   |
+--------+------------------+--------------------+-------------+ 
| LOG    | <basedir>/log/   | /var/log/unicore   | Log files   |
|        |                  | /unicorex/         |             |
+--------+------------------+--------------------+-------------+
| BIN    | <basedir>/bin/   | /usr/sbin/         | Start/stop  |
|        |                  |                    | scripts     | 
+--------+------------------+--------------------+-------------+


Starting/Stopping
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There are two scripts that expect to be run from the installation directory. To start, do:

.. code:: console

 $ cd <basedir>
 $ bin/start.sh


Startup can take some time. After a successful start, the log files (e.g. ``LOG/startup.log``) 
contain a message "*Server started.*" and a report on the status of any connections to 
other servers (e.g. the TSI or global registry).

To stop the server, do:

.. code:: console
  
  $ cd <basedir>
  $ bin/stop.sh

Using systemd on Linux, you would do (as *root*):

.. code:: console
  
  $ systemctl start unicore-unicorex.service


Log files
^^^^^^^^^

UNICORE/X writes its log file(s) to the LOG directory. By default, log files are rolled daily, 
There is no automated removal of old logs, if required you will have to do this yourself.

Details about the logging configuration are given in :ref:`ux_logging`.

