.. _ux_idb_syntax:

IDB syntax description
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ihe IDB is written in JSON format.

The IDB contains Partitions, Applications, Script Header and Info elements,
all of which will be described below. Additionally, the administrator can customize the script
template that is used to perform special actions, such as loading modules,
or changing the shell (please read :ref:`script-templates` for more information).

Applications can also be defined in separate files (if using a directory).

.. code:: json

  {
  
    "Partitions" : {},
  
    "Applications" : [],

    "Info" : {},
    
    "ScriptHeader" : "..."
  
  }


Partitions
^^^^^^^^^^

Each Partition corresponds essentially to a batch queue. Each
partition may have its own runtime limits, number of CPUs etc.

Let's look at an example first. In the IDB file

.. code:: json

  {
    "Partitions": {

       "batch" : {
          "IsDefaultPartition": "true",
          "Description": "Default batch queue",
          "OperatingSystem": "LINUX",
          "OperatingSystemVersion": "6.5.0-35-generic 22.04.1-Ubuntu",
          "CPUArchitecture": "x86_64",
          "Resources": {
            "Nodes": "1-64:1",
            "CPUsPerNode": "4:4",
            "TotalCPUs": "4-256",
            "Runtime": "1-72000:3600",
          },
        },
 
        "dev" : {
          "Description": "Development queue",
          "OperatingSystem": "LINUX",
          "CPUArchitecture": "x86_64",
          "Resources": {
            "Nodes": "1-4:1",
            "CPUsPerNode": "4:4",
            "TotalCPUs": "4-16",
            "Runtime": "1-3600:10m",
          },
        },
  
      }
  }


If you have more than one Partition, make sure to set one as the default using
the element
::

   "IsDefaultPartition": "true",



Resources
+++++++++
 
Here you can specify things like number of nodes, job runtime (wall
time!)  CPUs per node, total number of CPUs, etc.

Integer-valued capabilities are specified with a range and an
optional default value, for example,
::

  "Nodes" : {
    "Range": "1-64",
    "Default": "1"
 }

or in a more compact style:
::

 "Nodes" : "1-64:1",


If a default is specified, the resource is part of the site's default
resource set, and a value will be always be sent to the TSI.

If NO default is specified, the resource request will only be sent to
the TSI if the user has requested it in her job.

A number of standard resource names exist, which a system should
adhere to, in order to make user jobs as portable as possible. You may
choose to not specify some of them, if they do not make sense on your
system. For example, some sites do not allow the user to explicitely
select nodes and processors per node, but only *total number of CPUs*,
or only *Nodes*.

:``Runtime``: The wall clock time (integer). You can use the usual units ("m", "h", "d"),
   e.g. "12h"

:``Nodes``: The number of nodes (integer)

:``CPUsPerNode``: The number of CPUs per node (integer)

:``TotalCPUs``: The total number of CPUs (integer)

:``MemoryPerNode`` (or just ``Memory``): The amount of memory per node in bytes (integer). You can use the usual units
 ("k", "M", G"), e.g. "128G"

:``NodeConstraints``: Identifiers for requesting specific node types
 (list of values)

:``QoS``: Quality of service required by the job
 (list of values)

::

 "NodeConstraints" : {
  "Type": "CHOICE",
  "AllowedValues" : ["gpu", "mc"]
 }



Support for array jobs
++++++++++++++++++++++

Many resource managers support submission of job arrays, i.e. multiple similar jobs
are submitted at the same time, where the user can control two things:
how many jobs are submitted, and how many jobs run at the same time.

To enable this feature, the site administrator needs to define two resources
in the IDB partition(s), named ``ArraySize`` and ``ArrayLimit``.

Consider the following example:

::

  "ArraySize"  : "1-100:1",
  "ArrayLimit" : "1-100:10",


The array size and limit are passed to the TSI via
::

  #TSI_ARRAY 0-99
  #TSI_ARRAY_LIMIT 10

The TSI also sets an environment variable in the job script that corresponds to the *task id*, i.e.
the ID of the current job instance::

  UC_ARRAY_TASK_ID = "22"; export UC_ARRAY_TASK_ID


Other types of resources
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Most HPC sites have special settings that cannot be mapped to the
generic resource elements shown in the previous section. Therefore,
UNICORE allows to define custom system settings and allow users to
request these in their UNICORE jobs.

Custom resources have a name, and a short specification including their
type and range and/or allowed values.

UNICORE/X will send such resource requests to the TSI in upper case,
with a "#TSI_SSR_" prefix, e.g.

.. code:: bash

  #!/bin/sh
  #TSI_SUBMIT
  # ...
  #TSI_SSR_QUBITS 32
  # ...


Custom resource definitions support the following fields:

:``Type``: int (default), double, string, choice or boolean
:``Range``: ('int', 'float') allowed range of the form "lower-upper"
:``Default``: optional default value
:``AllowedValues``: (for 'choice') list of strings 
:``Description``: optional description

Here are a few examples:


::

  "LicenseKey" : {
  "Type": "String"
 }
 
 "UserSupportClass" : {
  "Type": "CHOICE",
  "AllowedValues" : ["bronze", "silver", "gold"],
  "Default": "bronze"
 }

 "ReservedBandwidth" : {
  "Type": "int",
  "Range" "1-100",
 }


For "int" resources, you can alternatively use the abbreviated definition, as shown above
for the standard resources (such as 'Nodes'). For example,

::

  "FPGAs" : "0-1024"


.. _script-templates:

Script header
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you need to modify the scripts that are generated by UNICORE/X and sent to the TSI, 
you can achieve this using the ``Script Header`` field in the IDB.

.. code:: json
	  
  {

    "ScriptHeader" : [ 
        "#!/bin/bash -l"
    ],
  
  }

(The default script header is ``#!/bin/bash -l``)

The Script Header can be used to perform special actions, such as loading modules,
or changing the shell (but use something compatible to 'sh'). For example, to add some
special directory to the path for user scripts submitted in batch mode, you could use

::

  "ScriptHeader" : [
    "#!/bin/bash -l",
    "LD_LIBRARY_PATH= $LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/opt/openmpi-2.1/lib; export LD_LIBRARY_PATH",
    "PATH=$PATH:/opt/openmpi-2.1/bin; export PATH",
  ],


.. attention::
  Make sure that the commands in the script header **DO NOT** generate 
  any output on standard out or standard error! Always redirect any  output to ``/dev/null``.


For example,

::

  "ScriptHeader" : [
    "#!/bin/bash -l",
    "module load java-11 > /dev/null 2>&1"
  ]


Info
^^^^

Simple key-value pairs can be entered into the IDB which are then
accessible client-side. This is very useful for conveying
system-specifics to client code and also to users.

Here is an example:

.. code:: json

  {
     "Info" : {
       "ssh-host"    : "login.cluster.com",
       "admin-email" : "root@cluster.com",
     },
  }


These pieces of information are accessible client side (via the REST API) as
part of the target system factory and target system properties.

Summary
^^^^^^^

Translation of standard resource names to TSI parameters:

+-------------------------------+--------------------------+
|Resource                       | TSI parameter            |
+===============================+==========================+
|Name of the selected partition | #TSI_QUEUE               |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+
|Accounting project (from job)  | #TSI_PROJECT             |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+ 
|Runtime                        | #TSI_TIME                |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+
|Nodes                          | #TSI_NODES               |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+
|CPUsPerNode                    | #TSI_PROCESSORS_PER_NODE |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+
|TotalCPUs                      | #TSI_TOTAL_PROCESSORS    |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+
|GPUsPerNode                    | #TSI_GPUS_PER_NODE       |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+
|NodeConstraints                | #TSI_BSS_NODES_FILTER    |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+
|QoS                            | #TSI_QOS                 |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+
|MemoryPerNode (or Memory)      | #TSI_MEMORY              |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+ 
|ArraySize                      | #TSI_ARRAY               |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+
|ArrayLimit                     | #TSI_ARRAY_LIMIT         |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+
|Exclusive                      | #TSI_EXCLUSIVE           |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+ 
|Other resources                | #TSI_SSR_<name>          |
+-------------------------------+--------------------------+
